>> Scott Moss: Let's get to it.
So we're gonna write our first mutation.
We didn't talk about mutations,
so we're just gonna dive in.
But it's very similar to queries.
So mutations, what is a mutation?
Well, a mutation is like a query.
If a query is a read,
a mutation is a write,
that's basically what it says is
you're mutating some state somewhere.
And that's the whole purpose.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna write our first mutation.
I'm gonna walk you
through how I write them.
And then you can take from that what
you want, or you can just write it from
scratch if you want to, but
I'm gonna show you how I do it.
And I think it's pretty cool.
So what we'll do is with
your server running,
if you go to our app,
at least mine is on port 3,000, okay?
Yours might also be on port 3,000.
But if you go to
3000/API/GraphQL in the browser,
you should get an app like this,
so load up a whole app for free.
>> Scott Moss: And this is where
you can explore our GraphQL API.
So this is fully functioned,
this is connected to your database.
So you can actually create users,
you can sign in, you can create issues,
you can delete, you can do everything
that is enabled here on this Back end,
it fully works.
So this is where I like
to experiment with and
write the queries that I
need from our front end.
And then I go and copy them and
add them to our front end.
It's just so much easier, right?
So that's what I'm gonna do.
So we need to create
a mutation to sign in.
Before the Star Wars API, we only had one
Root Type we had query, and that was it.
Well, here we have query and mutation.
There's actually a third one
too called subscriptions.
We won't talk about those too much,
but those are basically web sockets.
GraphQL can do web sockets,
they're called subscriptions.
So I wanna do a mutation cuz
I need to create a user.
I'm gonna sign someone in,
so it must be on mutation.
So I'm gonna click plus on that.
It's gonna add a mutation here.
And then as you can see here, all
the available mutations that our API has,
again, already built this for us.
And which one of these mutations
probably makes the most sense for
assigning someone in?
Probably create a user.
So I'm gonna click Create User.
And then what I can see here is that I
have a non-no argument that I must pass.
I know it's non-null because there's
an exclamation mark after it.
That means you have to include this.
So this mutation must take
an argument called input and
its type must be AuthInput.
So what is AuthInput?
Let's go see, alt input is an object
that has a non-null email and
a non-null password.
So for me to sign up, I have to pass
an argument that has a field called input,
that's an object that has an email and
a password, right?
And then I wanna go ahead and
get back the,token and the ID.
And then for the input, I'm gonna go
ahead and select email and password.
It'll add it for me.
And then here, I can add an email.
So I'm just gonna add email here.
I'm admin@admin.com.
And then I'm gonna add a password.
And if I hit mutation,
if I did it right, It'll create a user.
It's the same way if you did it
on the forum on the main branch.
So you can see it created a user.
I got back the token.
There's a JSON Web Token that gets created
that you need to store in the local
storage.
And here's the ID of the user.
And that's a mutation.
So just to walk through to
connect these dots a little more,
because I know I've
talked about it before.
But I really wanna bring
it home with these inputs
because I remember learning GraphQL and
I quite struggled with this for a while.
But it wasn't until I just thought about
it as just a regular function argument
that it started making sense to me.
This is really just
an argument placeholder.
You can call it whatever you want, but
it has to map to the name
that you put here, okay?
So when I pass up my variables object,
which the graphical client is doing for
us, it has to map to the name here.
So in this case, input is input.
It maps those names.
So if I wanted to call this a,
this has to be called a note.
>> Scott Moss: They have to map, right?
And obviously just freaking
out because like what's a so
there has to be a now as well.
Okay, so
you can call it whatever you want, but
it has to map with the actual input.
No, I got rid of my thing.
Hold on.
We got it back.
[INAUDIBLE]
And
give me that, okay?
And then you have to put the type.
What is the type of this input?
It's the same type that
the mutation says it is.
It's a non-null AuthInput type.
It has to be the same type.
Whatever the schema says,
that's what this has to be.
Has to be the same, okay?
And then here, you could think of this as
if this is you creating a function and
describing what arguments you want,
this is you calling a function and
passing the arguments in.
That's the difference.
I'm creating a function,
which means I can call these
arguments whatever the hell I want.
And here's the type for it.
And here on this next line,
I'm calling a function and
now I'm passing the argument in as
a value to this function, right?
This is type check.
This has to be called input because
that's what it's called here.
It's called input.
And its value must be off input.
Well, guess what has an off input value?
This variable here,
dollar input has all the input values, so
I'm just gonna pass it in here.
So the only two things that have to be
the same are the name of this thing and
the name of this thing, that's it.
These dollar variables can be wherever
the hell you want, as long as the same and
your variables.
>> Scott Moss: That's it, there's really
nothing else to inputs other than you can
use them in many, many different places.
>> Scott Moss: I could
create another user here, or
yeah you could do more than one
mutation by the way in one mutation,
it gets crazy you could
do a lot of stuff here.
So I can make more than one create
user call inside of one mutation,
and it'll do it, but
you're not doing that.
Cool, any questions on that?
>> Scott Moss: No, okay, so
now that I have that,
I'm just gonna copy this mutation.
I'm just gonna do this.
I'm gonna say, cool.
I'm gonna copy that mutations, right?
Mouse, let's copy that.
If, we go back to the notes,
there's gonna be a GQL folder on our root.
And for every single query or
mutation that we create,
we're gonna put in his own file.
There's just something that I
do like to keep them separate.
Keep them that way, and then we're
going to paste in what we just copied.
Or if you wanna write it from scratch,
you can write from scratch.
We're gonna put that in there and
we're gonna export it.
So let's do that.
So for our sign in mutation, or actually
the one I just made was sign up so
I'm gonna do the sign up one first.
So I'm gonna grab the sign up mutation,
I'll put it in there, and
I'm gonna do the same thing for
the sign in mutation.
So we go down, there should be a GQL
folder, if not just make it, let me see.
I guess I just deleted the whole
folder which makes sense for clients.
So on the route, just make a new folder,
call it GQL, like that.
If you got some icons it'll
show well Graph QL icon there.
And then I'm gonna make
my sign up mutation.ts.
It's not JSX I don't have to do TSX or
JSX.
It's just a TypeScript file.
And then I'm going to import from Oracle.
I think it's Oracle next maybe.
Let's see.
Yeah, I'll import GQL.
GQL allows us to do something
called a template tag.
Well, it's hard to describe
it a template tag does, but
it's basically like a function that
takes a string and interpolates on it.
And we don't have to use this, you can
actually just use a regular string, and
it works just fine.
But this array here will convert
your string into what's called
a GraphQL document, basically some
objects that we can pass to the query.
It's just another level of abstraction.
People do this because sometimes
they need to operate on a query and
do things with it, transform it.
There's things like code highlight,
it's just a lot better because
you don't have to do it.
We're gonna do it.
So I'm gonna make my sign up
mutation like this.
Wait, no, I'm not doing it.
I wanna make sure I keep the same.
Okay, yeah, all right.
So I'm just gonna do GQL.
We're gonna do that.
I like to go to the next line.
I'm just gonna paste this here.
I don't know what plugin is telling
me to execute this mutation, but
it's not gonna work.
And I don't know what that is.
But it's cool.
It's a good thought, but
I'm pretty sure it does nothing.
So all you have to set up, but
we got that and then I'm just
going to guess I'll just export
this as a name variable.
That way I don't have to rename it and
have name conflicts when I import it.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
we have our sign-up mutation.
We'll bring this over to our sign-up file.
We'll try to sign up.
We'll get that working.
Then we'll come back and make our sign-in
mutation, and we'll try to sign in, and
we'll get that working.
So, let's do that.
And at minimum, you need token.
You need token here.
If you don't have token here,
there's gonna be problems.
You don't really need the ID of
not doing anything with it so
I could just get rid of it, but
you definitely need the token.
Cuz we need to save the token in the local
storage when you sign up, otherwise,
we can't make any requests out of that.